-Welcome, welcome, welcome.
-Hi!
-Lea, how's your mom doing,
by the way?
-My mom is great.
Our parents know each other.
-Give her my best.
-I will. I will.
She's obsessed with you.
-I love her.
-And your dad.
-Yeah, and my dad, too.
Aaron, Nick, this is your debut
on "The Tonight Show,"
so welcome to the show.
-Yes!
-Yeah. Thank you.
-Thank you very much. Thank you.
Yes.
-This is so exciting.
Like, it was shows like this
that were my window to
the Broadway world growing up.
So it's surreal
to be here right now.
-We're so lucky to to get
Broadway actors and musicians
to come on our show.
So thank you so much
for doing this.
And, everyone out there
watching, go see this play.
It's pretty awesome.
-Yes.
-I want to talk about this play,
but also talk about the theater.
This is the Imperial Theatre,
and this is where young
Lea Michele made her debut.
-Yes, 30 years ago.
-No.
-Don't tell anybody.
-Is it 30?
-Yeah.
-I won't say anything.
-They won't know.
-30 years ago?
-30 years ago.
-In "Les Miz."
-Yeah, it was my Broadway debut.
-Look, this is little baby.
-There I am.
[ Audience aws ]
-Come on.
-I know.
-But then look at then --
Here you are.
The same theater, the Imperial.
-Yes.
-And here you took a photo
in the exact same spot.
-But wait. But look.
What's crazy is behind me
in that photo in 1996
is the "Chess" playbill.
-Whoa!
-And I had no idea.
And then someone showed me
this picture.
I didn't remember where
in the theater it was taken.
And Nick and I
went to the theater
a few weeks ago
for a little tour,
and I turned and I was like,
"Oh, my gosh,
there is the spot that I took
this picture 30 years ago."
So Nick took this picture of me.
-And now you're in ---
-Look at the playbill behind me.
I mean, that's kind of crazy.
-You're in "Chess."
-I'm in "Chess."
-It's all meant to be.
It's all meant to be.
-I know.
[ Cheers and applause ]
-Wow!
-That's kind of crazy.
-Aaron, you said one
of your first Broadway
shows that you
that you saw was "Ragtime."
-Yes, it was.
-In the '90s.
And Lea was in that show.
-Yes.
I was really fortunate because
I grew up just, like, upstate,
you know,
and I got to see Broadway shows
with school groups, which was
an amazing thing.
And one of the early shows
that I saw that made
a big impression was "Ragtime."
And it was during the first year
when the original cast was
there.
So I saw Lea in "Ragtime."
-You remembered
my entire performance.
-[ Coughs ] Yes.
[ Laughter ]
I remember when you walked
on stage, I was like,
"This is the --
We're going to do 'Chess'
together in 35 years."
-Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
-Perfect.
-Nick, before you started
working on the show,
you and Aaron were
just together in "Sweeney Todd."
-That's right.
-So does it feel like you have
a shorthand when
you're doing "Chess"?
-Yeah. I mean, we got to deepen
our relationship
definitely through this process.
And during "Sweeney,"
I was the first kill.
So I was on stage for about
like 25 minutes.
-Oh, my God. It still counts.
-Yeah, it still counts.
And I like to think that I get
my revenge on him in "Chess."
-You definitely get me
back this time around.
So that's good. Yeah, yeah.
-Oh!
Lea, I heard that
one of your best friends
and one of our favorites,
Jonathan Groff,
had something
to do with the casting.
-I know. I can't go any --
I can't do anything
without talking about him.
-No. Me neither.
Yeah, we bring Jonathan Groff --
-We're obsessed with him.
-We're obsessed with
Jonathan Groff.
-We really are.
-Yeah. He's the best.
Hi, Jonathan.
-No. Well, yeah.
When this whole project
was sort of coming together,
I knew that Nick was, you know,
hopefully going to be on board,
which I was so excited about.
And we were looking for someone
to play this character Freddie,
which Aaron now plays.
And if you know this show,
you know it's some
of the hardest singing.
It's so hard, like,
and very complicated
and has, like, this crazy range
but his role in particular, and
I call Jonathan and I was like,
"If we can't find the right,
most perfect person
to play this part, then we
literally can't do this show."
He was like,
"You have to call Aaron Tveit."
And so I called --
I got his number from his wife,
called him, and here we are now.
-And now I'm sending Jonathan
10% of my weekly salary.
[ Laughter ]
-Yeah, yeah.
No, no, don't give him any.
But the songs are beautiful
and brilliant.
Can you tell everyone
who wrote these songs?
-Yeah, it's Benny and Bjorn
of ABBA fame,
Benny Andersson and Bjorn.
And yeah, so it's ABBA music
with Tim Rice lyrics.
-Tim Rice, Benny and Bjorn
from ABBA?
Come on! I'm freaking out!
-And chess.
-Yeah, yeah.
-How do we set up
what the show is about?
-Yeah, that's
where I let Aaron take over.
-So, basically "Chess" is
a -- it's a story
that revolves around
a world championship chess match
in 1979,
and it's looking at lots
of geopolitical climate
between Russia and the United
States and the Cold War.
And yep, sounds super fun.
[ Laughter ]
but no, what it does is
it takes this chess match
between these two grandmasters
who are going for
the world championship,
and hopefully it's holding a bit
of a lens up to our society,
and we get to look at
kind of things
that are happening
in our world today,
but told with this amazing music
through this dramatic lens.
-And you're doing
a performance tonight,
a medley of three of the songs
from "Chess."
So you'll get to see
a little Broadway tonight.
Thank you for doing this.
-Yeah.
-The best.
[ Cheers and applause ]
Before you go on on stage
and perform for us,
do you have any vocal warm-ups
that you do or...?
-Well, first of all,
I mean, you did your play,
which was amazing.
-Thank you.
-Is a musical next?
-Yes.
Maybe I'll do a musical next.
If I can do a musical
for seven days, I'm in.
-So then we'll do our warm-up.
And then will you do it too?
-Oh, yes.
-So you'll pass the test?
-Yes, yes.
-Okay.
-Thank you.
-So, all the warm-ups are,
like, really weird.
Shout-out to my vocal coach
Eric Vetro. I love you.
-I love Eric Vetro.
-He's great, right?
-Yes.
-Okay. So then you know what
you're going to do.
So my number-one warm-up that
I do all the time before I go on
is I do a little like -- What is
it, like a siren or a slide?
-Yeah.
-Sort of? So it goes...
[ Escalating pitch
vocalization ]
Should I turn the mike?
-No. Turn it off.
[ Laughter ]
-Come on, let's hear it.
-[ Escalating pitch
vocalization ]
-Pretty good.
-I'll work on it.
-It was a little crunchy
in there.
-Yeah, a little crunchy. Yep.
-So, mine's a little bit
of wordplay as it goes,
but it's a little bit
of singing too, so it goes
♪ Think, think, think,
think, think, think ♪
♪ Merrily, merrily, merrily,
merrily, life is but a dream ♪
-You got that?
-♪ Think, think, think,
think, think, think ♪
♪ Merrily, merrily, merrily,
life is but a dream ♪
-That's it.
-Great!
-Wow. That was like "Simon,"
playing "Simon."
That is helpful.
-That's good.
I will take that. Alright.
-You were looking a little stiff
while you're doing that.
-Okay.
-So you got to kind of loosen
it up a little bit, right?
So you want to get
the jaw tension out.
So clasp your hands like this.
-Uh-huh.
-And just shake your hands
as fast as you can and go
yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh
yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh.
[ Laughter ]
It's easy.
-Come on, Jimmy, you got this.
-You know, with the Internet
these days, I don't
want to do this.
-Let's go! Let's go!
[ Cheers and applause ]
Let's go!
This is what it takes
to be on Broadway, Jimmy.
-Do you want to be on Broadway?
-Yes, I want to be on Broadway.
Yes, yes, yes.
-Do you want to be in a musical?
-Yes.
[ Laughter ]
-This is what we do.
[ Drumroll ]
[ Laughter and cheering ]
-Do it one more time.
[ Laughter ]
-Come on.
Let's all do it together.
-Ready?
-Okay? 1, 2, 3.
-Yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh
yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh-yuh.
-There we go.
[ Cheers and applause ]
We're famous. We're famous now.
Aaron Tveit, Lea Michele,
Nicholas Christopher.
"Chess" is playing at
the Imperial Theatre.
They're performing for us
after the break.
Stick around.
How cool was that? "Chess."